>> Brian Holt: Normal client side thing,
we need to take this a step further,
cuz now we're gonna have this balance.
Some of this is gonna
happen on the servers, and
then something needs to happen on
the client to actually render this, right,
or take over the rendered app.
So in other words, we have to have this
app, and everything that's a child of
the app needs to be able to happen
both in client and on server.
But we need something that's actually
going to instantiate it on the client
side, that's not going
to run on the server.
So we're gonna create this client.js file,
it's gonna be really short,
import hydrateRoot.
This is really similar to the create root,
but hydrate basically assumes
that whatever's coming in is going
to be server side rendered, right?
So it's like, here is existing markup,
make sure it's a good markup, and
then take over the app.
That's what hydrateRoot does,
versus create root basically says,
here's a component.
Blow away anything that's on the interior
of here, and then render my stuff into it.
>> Brian Holt: Import
createElement as h and
import App from ./App, okay?
HydrateRoot (document.getElementById
"root"),
>> Brian Holt: And
right there,
>> Brian Holt: h(App).
>> Brian Holt: Okay, that's it.
If you remember,
from complete intro to React,
this looks really similar to what we
would normally write there as well.
The other nice thing to do here is let's
say you do have Google Analytics or
you have other stuff that needs to
run in the browser, this is safe.
This is a safe area that you can
do anything that needs to happen
on the browser, because this will
only execute on the browser,
none of this will happen
on the server side.
>> Speaker 2: Actually,
one other question on that.
Is this considered a security
boundary where you can trust that
nothing's going to execute or
could this be circumvented if
someone is trying to get data to execute
in the server side of the build?
>> Brian Holt: I guess say more,
who are we worried about here?
>> Speaker 2: I was just saying,
if you have code upstream,
can you reasonably assume that
there are no areas where this would
execute on the server side of the build?
>> Brian Holt: This could never
execute on the server side,
is that what you're asking me?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, exactly.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, exactly,
because we won't import this.
On the server, we're going to import app,
and we're not going to import client,
so both client and
app will import app separately.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I got you.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so this client will
never get imported into your server, yeah.
But you still wrote clients.
So if there's a security problem
with client, it's cuz you wrote it.
[LAUGH] Okay, so do you trust yourself?
I don't trust myself.
Okay, so we're going to create a new
file here that's gonna be server.js.
And this is gonna look pretty similar
to before, except it's gonna be a bit
simpler, because we're gonna
have Fastify to help us out now.
So import fastify from fastify,
import fastifyStatic from fastify/static,
import (readFileSync) from node:fs.
If you wanna copy and
paste all of these imports,
I don't really have a problem with that.
I'm just gonna keep writing them,
because I'm a glutton for punishment.
Import (fileURLToPath).
>> Brian Holt: Import path,
from no path,
we're gonna have to do Notepad.
We're gonna have to do the same song and
dance with the dirname that we did before.
You are free to again copy and
paste that from your previous one.
That's literally what I do when
I go from project to project.
It's like I look at my previous projects,
like, all right, how did I do this again?
And then I just copy and paste it.
RenderToString, this is kind of a fun one.
RenderToString, notice that there's,
we did static before, right?
And now, we're gonna do renderToString.
That seems like they should
be the same thing, right?
Why are they different?
StaticMarkup, like you
saw in the previous one,
there is no additional React
information added to the string.
Whereas renderToString is actually gonna
still have all the React metadata that
it needs to hydrate and
all the proper hooks and
all that stuff that it needs to
take over on the client side.
So you use renderToString
when you intend on hydrating,
use renderToStaticMarkup when
you don't intend on hydrating.
Now, you might ask,
what happens if I use renderToString and
then just don't hydrate it?
It still works, it's just bigger than it
needs to be, so that's the difference.
We could also do renderToPipeableStream.
This would work and
then you stream the markup.
So React will give partial chunks
to the client to be able to render.
We're about to do that with React server
components, so I wanted to show you both,
but that would work here as well.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
import  from React as h,
and then import App from ./App.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, again, you can copy
and paste this from our previous project,
you can ask ChatGPT for it.
You can type it out with me as well,
but it's just const _ _filename =
fileURLToPath (import.meta.url),
and then const _ _dirname = dirname
_ _filename, and now const.
Now, this __dirname will be correctly of
where we are executing our project from.
I believe that they're gonna fix this for
future versions of Node,
because maybe I've complained enough, but
certainly people have complained enough.
We just expect this to be defined,
and it's useful everywhere, right?
>> Brian Holt: They're trying to
get away from like globals, right?
I respect the concept, but
in practice, it's just annoying.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, const shell,
this should look familiar to you,
readFileSync (path.join _ _,
>> Brian Holt: (__dirname, "dist").
So we're actually gonna grab
the built version instead
of this generic version here, why?
Well, because the built version will have
the correct script tag URLs in them.
I'll show you here in a little bit,
but that's why.
And this is utf8,
>> Brian Holt: const
app = fastify or you can put express,
anything here, and
then we're gonna say
app.register(fastifyStatic).
We need to serve our index.html,
we need also to serve
our script file that
we're about to generate.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, give it the root,
this is all Fastify stuff.
If you don't really understand Fastify,
it's not the point of this course.
We're just setting up Fastify to work.
>> Brian Holt: And prefix:, this is
where it's gonna get the files from.
Now, we get to write some of the fun part.
First thing we're gonna do is
we're gonna say const parts =
shell.split on ROOT,
just like we did before.
We did replace, and
now we're gonna do split, why?
When someone connects and
says, hey, I want this,
we wanna immediately give
them the first part, right?
We wanna give them the head tag,
that's the really the part
that I care the most about.
Because while we're rendering the app,
like, running all of the React component
stuff, they can be downloading the CSS.
They can be downloading the script tags.
They can be downloading all
that stuff that that, you know,
that stuff that we put into the head tag.
So we can basically make it as
concurrent as possible rather than as
sequential as possible.
And then once the app finishes,
then we can just flush out
the second part of this.
>> Brian Holt: So on a get "/",
right, on the homepage.
We wanna run this function req, res,
request and response, okay?
Reply.write, and you just write parts [0].
So this is like flushing out
the first part of the head tag,
just like what you were saying.
Now that that's been sent to the user,
then we'll do all the React stuff.
So order here actually
is somewhat important,
that's really what I'm getting at.
RenderToString, h App,
>> Brian Holt: And
reply.raw.write (reactApp).
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
then reply raw, right parts
one,
>> Brian Holt: And then reply.
>> Brian Holt: And I did rec res here,
actually really meant to do reply.
Sorry about that.
So not res but reply, that's just too
many years of writing an express.
Raw.end, so actually the reply.raw
really is res, right?
It's the res object coming
directly from Node.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then here you're
just gonna say an app.listen on whatever
report you wanna put it on,
I put it on 3,000, I don't really care.
Put it on 80 if you want to.
I'm joking, don't put it on 80,
cuz then you have to run it a pseudo, and
then that's how I mine
Bitcoin on your computer.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, this is cool though,
because this is succinct.
This is exactly what you wanna do with
server side rendering, flush the head,
send the app, send the last part.
And the order here ends up being really
important, just that the user can get
everything, cuz there's a real
temptation to do this first, but
then the user's unnecessarily waiting.
In our case, our app is microscopic,
so who cares, right?
But if you have a big app, which is the
only time you really wanna do server side
rendering, then you wanna flush
that head as fast as possible.
Remember, in our package.json, we have
this vite build that we put in there,
this is cuz we do need
to build our app here.
In our case, it doesn't really matter,
because there's not a lot to be built
here, but still we need it to be built and
to have the index.html have
the correct script tag here.
Did I need to put a script tag in here and
I missed it?
I did, okay,
that's good that we checked that.
So in your index.html,
we also need to refer to clients.js.
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna put
a script tag here in the head, right?
Because on that first load,
we want to start loading that JS
file while we're rendering the app.
So I know most of us are used to
probably putting this here at the end,
but our hack here is we're gonna
say async defer type = module.
And this is gonna say,
start downloading this, but
it's okay if you keep
rendering the rest of the app.
If you don't put that there, it's just
gonna stop, which is not what we want,
we want to continue doing everything else.
>> Brian Holt: ./ and then we want
it to load client, right, not app.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah, we do need this
build process more, because we have
multiple files, multiple modules that
we needed to glue everything together.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, now,
I believe let's just do it from here,
cuz this looks better.
>> Brian Holt: First things first,
we gotta build, right?
Because then we load the built
files into our node server, so
I'm gonna say npm run build.
>> Brian Holt: And
you can see here now we have a dist, and
we have an index.html,
looks pretty similar, right?
This is just raw built feed files, and
you can notice we got this
weird assets index hash.
And then here's our JavaScript file,
this really blew up, didn't it?
But it's React, right,
this is all the React stuff.
In fact, it says it right there,
license, React.
And now,
we should be able to go over here and
say npm run, what do they call it, start?
Okay, running, no one's yelling thus far,
localhost 3000, and you can say,
Hello Frontend Masters.
This is beautiful design,
chic design by Brian,
as I like to call it.
I mean, let's make this
a million times bigger, but
it's still interactable, right?
This React is still running on this page,
but this is always the fun test.
If you view page source, notice that
it's coming with complete markup, right?
>> Brian Holt: Which is pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: Now, we're running on local
hosts, everything is infinitely fast here,
so it's really hard to be able
to tell the difference here.
But imagine this coming with
a whole slew of markup,
it will allow our browser to render
all that stuff first before trying
to instantiate all the interactivity
pieces of it, make sense?
If you are seeing hydration errors,
it's like 99% probability that
you white spaced somewhere.
In fact, we'll see if we can actually
just intentionally cause it, so
you can see what I'm talking about.
>> Brian Holt: The reason I'm harping on
this is cuz I spent myself a good hour
being what is going on?
It's the same markup, right?
It's very frustrating.
So I think if I do this, and
I save that and I got to rebuild.
>> Brian Holt: Deep run build, npm run
start, and then I refresh my page here.
Everything's still gonna work,
right, React is still working.
But I think it's gonna say,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, and
then this is the hard part as well,
we're in the Minified React error,
418, cuz it's the production build, right?
It's not the dev build,
yeah, hydration failed.
>> Brian Holt: And does it say?
No, it's funny that they don't even
mention that it could be white space,
cuz that's actually what it is for
our particular thing.
So that's what this is, I wonder if
I can even show you, will it work?
Maybe, view page source again,
don't do that.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
this is why it's doing it right there,
it's cuz doesn't expect this white space,
it expects everything to be all in one
line,
>> Brian Holt: Subtle bug, right?
Most time you're not writing this
directly, most time your frameworks doing
this for you, so that's why they don't
really take too much care about it.